# nproctdb - Kflat recipes generator

`nproctdb` is a Python tool used for automatic generation of KFLAT recipes. With this script, you can quickly generate necessary recipes to dump memory of structures used in off-targets generated with [Auto-Off-Target suite](https://github.com/Samsung/auto_off_target). Script utilizes DB.json database that can be generated with build tracing infrastructure available in [CAS repository](https://github.com/Samsung/CAS).


## Setup
Make sure you've got recent Python3 version installed on your computer. Additionally, you'll need a copy of `libftdb.so` library built from CAS respository, as well as DB.JSON database for your project.


## Usage
Most basic usage of nproctdb is to create recipe for selected kernel structure `device`, traced from the entry point `sshot_ctrl_store`:

```sh
./nproctdb.py -d vmlinux_db.json.img -c linux_recipes.cfg device sshot_ctrl_store
```

> **Warning**
>
> Upon first launch, nproctdb generates preprocessed database from db.json. This process may require a LOT of RAM in you machine. Use it carrefully!

Parameter `-d` specifies the path to db.json database file (default: `db.json`). Scripts accepts DB.json in both available formats: the plain JSON and flattened image (for details refer to CAS repository). Additionaly, optional parameter `-c` specified the structure config file to be used during recipes generation. With config file, user can limit the fields being dumped from the structures, for instance specify that only field `private_data` should be dumped from structure `file`.

Upon execution, `nproctdb` will collect all functions accessible from the given entry point `sshot_ctrl_store`. Next, all these functions are traced for usage of `void*` pointers and `container_of` macros. Finally, script recursively dumps structure definitions, starting from the given structure `device`. Thanks to the traced information regarding `void*` pointers casting, it is able to properly deduce the underlying types of these generic pointers and pull their definitions as well.

By default, script assumed that the provided structure type is the first argument to the function and will generate trigger recipe accordingly. To overwrite this behaviour, use syntax `struct_name@number` (ex. `device@2`, `bin_attribute@3`) to specify which function argument should be dumped. Multiple separate structures can be dumped in one trigger generated by nproctdb.

Additionally, in order to save the content of global variables, use the following syntax: `global_name:location_suffix` (ex. `poolinfo_table:drivers/char/random.c`).

An example command dumping the first function argument of type `device` and global `poolinfo_table`:

```sh
./nproctdb -d vmlinux_db.json.img -c linux_recipes.cfg device@1 poolinfo_table:drivers/char/random.c sshot_ctrl_store
```

Refer to `./nproctdb -h` for more help.

## Structures configs
To prevent generation of overwhelming structure recipes, nproctdb can use special config file limiting generation of recipes for the selected kernel types. A good example configuration file for typical Linux/Android kernel is provided in file `linux_recipes.cfg`.

In general, configuration file consists of entries descibing which fields of the structure type should be dumped:

```json
"device": [
        {"name": "parent"},
        {"name": "init_name"},
        {"name": "driver_data"}
],
```

In the above example, only fields named `parent`, `init_name` and `driver_data` will be recursively processed for structure `device`.
